[telephone ringing]
[speaking in foreign language]
[music]
Hello, and welcome to another episode of "No Such Thing as a Fish, a Weekly Podcast"
coming to you from the QI offices in Covert Garden.
My name is Dan Schreiber.
I'm sitting here with Anna Chazinski, Andy Murray, and James Harkin.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts
from the last seven days and in no particular order, here we go, starting with you, Andy.
My fact is that 18th century hairstyles included the Spaniels' ears, mad dog, and the drowned
chicken.
These are all do's that you could get.
And do we know what they look like?
I haven't been able to find what these ones look like, no, but there are so many insane
styles.
I suppose we can imagine what a drowned chicken looks like.
Yeah.
And it's hard to imagine that that would be a desirable hairstyle with some kind of
punishment.
Yeah, a dog as well, it's bad hair basically, but you're drooling.
Yeah.
The Spaniels' ears is that a hairstyle that you see loads in 18th century paintings where
women have their hair flex on top and then curled down the sides.
Oh.
I don't know what it looks like.
It looks like you've got a Spaniels' ears.
There's also, there were two others around that time called, one was called "The Chest
of Draws", and the other one was called "Sportsman in the Bush".
Nice.
I don't know what that was.
What did that entail?
It'd be so fun to, if time travel was ever cracked, go back, not look into what it was, and
just ask for that sit down and see what you get.
That would be such a cool dare.
So exciting.
Yeah.
The loads of really fancy styles, particularly in France.
And I did read a theory that the French Revolution was partly caused by Marie Antoinette's
crazy hair.
OK.
Really?
Well, she had a royal hairdresser called Leonard O.T., and he made these incredibly fancy
hairdos for her, with a few other people, and the ladies of the court all followed suit.
And that led to some of the earliest attacks on Marie Antoinette in pamphlet form.
So obviously, it wasn't the entire cause, but it was, like, a symptom, basically.
I guess it represented her wealth compared to that one, actually, not wealth.
Yeah.
The most famous is the coffeeer, Albele Poul, which is a French ship.
And it had just beaten an English ship very heavily in a battle.
And so she got the ship in her hair.
Not the actual ship, though.
Yeah.
The full thing.
Very impressive.
Did they shape her hair into the shape of a boat, or did they, like, construct it with plywood?
What you do is you get your hair, and then you put a load of cushions sort of on your scalp
and a metal frame, and then you can build up your hair around that.
OK.
And then you put in a load of other hair as well.
And then you put in a model of a ship, and it had rigging, and it had little model sailors
on it.
And the version of this that you can see, which was Elton John's 50th birthday, he went
as Marianne Twinnett with the ship in a wig.
Really?
It's huge, ginormous.
Wow.
And the only reason I know that is I met a prop maker who made the Holy Grail for the Indiana
Jones movie.
He also made the ship for Elton John's wig.
Really?
Yeah.
And it came with a little pipe that went down into his clothing that every time he pressed,
little cannons had little bits of smoke.
Shoot out of it.
So it looked like he was shooting cannons.
So the thing is, it's apparently it was huge to carry, so just to give an idea of how heavy
those things must have been.
Elton John realised he couldn't get to the party in a car.
He had to go in a removals van, so it's the only way he could get to the party.
What?
Yeah, it was so heavy.
And the driver went that wrong way.
So they were stuck in the van for over an hour and a half, and he got so frustrated with
it, he tried to cancel the party.
They did use to have to dismantle their hair cells when they got into carriages.
I think Marianne Twinnett used to have someone who would have to take off the top layer
of hair so she could fit into a carriage.
But there's loads of accounts of all this stuff, and some of them I think are not true,
because some of them they only have mid-19th century sources, and it's all about the late
18th century.
So for example, this is a story that I think is not true, because the earlier source I've
found is 1862, but there was a guy called Bolard, who allegedly invented a thing called
the mechanical quaffir, which when you press the spring, it would lower by a foot.
If you wanted to get into a carriage, then you press the spring again and it goes up
and it was if you were talking to a grandmother, and you know you wanted to be respectful and
not have a crazy head, you could just lower it a cookie.
I would be really useful if you went to a theme park and you had to be a certain height
to get on the ride.
I'm speaking of carrying hair around.
Obviously, your wig was a massive commodity back in the 18th century.
I was reading about hair theft, and there's amazing accounts of what happened in the 18th
century, where people would be walking along, and suddenly their hair would just disappear.
Their wig would just disappear in a crowd, and what they reckon it was were guys, who
were sort of tall, burly men, who were carrying a butcher's tray over their shoulder that contained
a small child inside the butcher's tray, and the small child would peek out, quickly grab
the hair, the wig, head back into the butcher's tray.
So by the time the person turned around, there was just a burly man with the thing on his
shoulder.
Well, that's because wigs were really expensive.
Yeah, right.
Incredibly expensive.
So it wasn't really expensive to get these hairstyles done as well, and so I hadn't quite
realised how long they would stay in place, unless you were Mary Antoinette, who I think
asked for a new hairstyle every day, you put it in place, and you kept it there for a
few weeks.
You basically kept it there for as long as it took to go really mouldy, because the stuff
that they used to keep it in were things like animal fats, weren't they?
So I think they would end up getting really mouldy and smelly, and you'd get a lot of
kind of creatures in your hair, who were attracted to the substances used.
But people would have these hairstyles in for two or three weeks, and they'd just have
to sleep with their heads propped up on lots of pillows.
Wow. I was reading just a little bit about other fashionable things to be wearing in your
hair.
There were things like if you're a fun woman, you'd have lots of fake butterflies in your
hair to show that you're a fun woman.
Apparently wives of officers wore entire squadrons perched on their head to show that they
were an officer.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, so not real.
In miniature, I believe.
I would like to see a woman with a squadron of soldiers in her hair getting into a fight
with a woman who had a ship in her hair.
I'd like to see little soldiers try and get onto the ship.
That would be my target.
But you can't have infantry versus the Navy.
I mean, it's just you can just fight, can't you, you know, in the way that there were rules
involved.
I guess that is true.
But if you were a general and you say, okay, there's a ship over there, I'm going to
send my infantry out.
This is the reason I wasn't allowed into the army.
Roman brides would have their hair cut into six sections or braided into six sections.
And each of the locks had to be separated with a spear that had been used to kill a gladiator.
And for best results, you would still have the blood of the gladiator on the spear.
The best results leave in for two and a half minutes and ensure that a dead gladiator's
blood is on the tip of your spear.
That can't be in every wedding.
No, it wasn't.
I think it was very high society weddings.
High society weddings.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, fair enough.
And the Puritans, they like short hair, of course.
There was one Puritan called William Prin and he said that people who had long curly hair,
like mine, were unlawful, effeminate, venglorious, evil, odious, emodest, indecent, lascivious,
wanton, disillute, horish, ungodly, horrid, strange, outlandish, impudent, pernicious, offensive,
ridiculous, foolish, childish, and unchristian.
That's a fair description of you.
I don't think you're horish.
Anything else stands.
So get this.
This is very cool.
Before hair dryers, electrical hair dryers were invented.
What you could have was a stoneware hairdryer and it was like a hot water bottle, but for your
hair.
Right.
So you would fill it with boiling water and then you brush it through your hair and it
urgently dries it in a few minutes.
Pretty clever.
I guess it would.
Like ironing your hair.
Have you ever ironed your hair?
No, but I imagine that would dry it quite fast.
I am not joking, I used to iron my sister and her friend's hair.
We'd get an iron out and it's very hard because you've got to go quite close to the scalp,
but it's not quite a few scarves because you don't want it to kink when it goes off the
edge of the...
That's best result, though, is to have a little bit of your own blood through through
the hair.
That's what I said.
Would you try that on me later, so I look a bit less horish.
In the 19th century, a furniture used to be covered with Macassa protectors, so Macassa
was the popular hair oil that was so widespread that if you invited guest rounds, you knew that
your furniture would end up covered in it.
And so it got us on trains.
By these specials.
Yes, and in theaters.
Yeah, anti-macassas are called.
Yeah.
You know, the little lazy thing on a train seat, so you can have a plane ahead.
Behind your head, yeah.
That's because, obviously, when you get on a train, you want to put your Macassa on so
that you look great when you get to the other end.
I didn't know either.
Have you noticed that whenever you get on a train, there's never any Macassa on the chair?
Yeah.
That's due to the anti-macassas.
Well, that makes sense now.
Everything's falling into place for you now, then.
The entire world has basically been built around the need to avoid getting Macassa everywhere.
My favourite hair in history was the hair of Chief White Eagle.
He had the world's strongest hair.
And he used to be dangled under an aeroplane by tying his hair to the bottom of an aeroplane.
No.
Hang on, so it would take off.
At what point do we think he discovered that he could do that?
Well, he also jumped from planes with his hair attached to parachutes.
That is so cool.
So he would let it open and his hair was the string?
Yeah, yeah.
I think there were also...
Oh, parachute?
...prisonably.
There were longer strings attached to his hair, but his hair was basically the thing attaching
him to the parachute.
When was this guy active?
I'm not sure.
It was early...
It sounds like he was in a military capacity.
He was hanging from planes.
He was early 20th century.
What military application could that have?
All right, Chaps.
We've got the mission.
We need to take out the ship, but we've only got a plane to do it.
Can we not send in the infantry?
Freight not.
The hell-drown must-leak.
OK, it is time for fact number two, and that is my fact.
My fact this week is that the 1959 Formula One Championship was won on foot.
Wow.
Dark to finish?
No.
So there's a great Australian Formula One driver called Jack Brabham.
The story behind it is that he was making this final race that was going to win him the
championship.
He was on his final lap.
Victory was inside, and suddenly he ran out of petrol.
The car just came to a total halt, and that should have been the end of the race for
him.
Instead, he got out, and he pushed the car all the way to the finishing line.
And he came in fourth place, but that was enough to win him the championship.
Jack Brabham is the only person to have won a Formula One race driving one of his own cars.
Yes.
Because he later went into making cars and developing them and say, "It's not just his
run-around.
They used to take a little Ford Focus that he had, yeah."
Yeah, he's kind of one of those characters, so he's an Australian, and he kind of describes
when he came over to England in order to start racing for the Formula One.
That they treated him as a kind of really backward character from Australian, so every
single championship that he won, everyone assumed that he was going to lose.
So the third one, which he won in his own car, everyone thought he was past his peak, thought
he was too old to do it anymore.
So he came out to the starting line to his car.
He walked out with a fake long beard and a walking stick, and acted like an old man all
the way to his car.
Or a gangster.
And then when and when, that's great.
That's great.
What a cool guy.
Yeah.
One of his cars was called the Brabham BT46, and it had a massive fan on the back of
it.
The fan would move the air so that it sucks the car down to the track, and it made it a
lot more aerodynamic.
And he used it for one race, which he won, but all of the other drivers complained about
it.
They said it wasn't fair that he had it, and they didn't.
And also that the fan kind of picked up stones off the track and shot them at the following
cars.
Yeah.
And then after the first race he agreed he would never use it again.
Wow.
Even though it wasn't technically against the rules.
Already.
I think it's cool.
So this is the thing.
Number one is the set of rules that all drivers have to stick to.
And I found a friend of mine, my friend Max, Ferman, works at McLaren.
And what he said, this is so cool, is that basically the whole aim is to create downward
force on the car.
So they're all built like the opposite of a plane's wing, which is designed to lift you
up.
You have to get it as low as possible to make it as aerodynamic as possible.
And above a certain speed, the cars are so good at creating the downward force that they
could drive upside down along the ceiling of a tunnel.
That is crazy.
Why are they not doing that?
Yeah.
Why?
Just like why have we not seen that?
We would be watching Formula One, many more of us.
Yeah.
That was an aspect of it.
And there's a new Mario Kart that does that kind of stuff.
It's awesome.
Yeah.
It's very exciting.
What they're saying, the idea is already there.
I'm saying we've seen the future.
We've seen what it looks like.
It does work.
The transition from Mario Kart to Mario Kart ceiling works.
But why?
Yeah.
Why are we not doing it?
I don't know.
Well, I guess it's probably not very safe.
I know it does work, but then what happens if you hit a stone and you suddenly lose a bit
of downforce?
It's true.
The downward force and generally the pressure applied to Formula One drivers is very extreme,
obviously.
So the force, when it's at its maximum, is about five times their normal weight of force
on their bodies.
And that means that the exercise that they have to do most frequently is on their neck.
If you're a Formula One driver, the thing you focus on constantly is on neck exercises.
So they have all these ways of making sure that they are able to take this kind of pressure.
I think there's a particular Formula One helmet that one of the trainers designed, which
is surrounded by pulleys.
And so the driver wears the helmet, and then his trainer pulls all the pulleys in various
directions.
And the driver has to practice kind of counter-balancing that with the force of his neck.
They should just walk around with a massive ship on their heads.
It is amazing though, I would assume that the training would be just getting a car
and drive around the track.
That was not my assumption.
Yeah.
But you read about the training that all these Formula One guys have to do, and it's a mixture
of skiing, it's a mixture of swimming.
Well, you never know if your car runs out of petrol, and the slopes have...
[laughter]
The other thing I didn't know is that they change gear constantly about up to 4,000 times
a race.
Really?
Yeah, I just thought they sat there and put their foot down.
It's constantly changing gear.
It's once every 1.3 seconds in the Canadian Grand Prix.
No.
How knowing must that be?
The actual change of gear is 50 times faster than you can blink.
Ah, that is better than your standard manual car gear chain now.
[laughter]
Well, I've seen the wheel, the actual steering wheels these days.
Yeah, it's like a console.
It's like a console, yeah.
There's about 70 buttons on it that they end all knobs that they just turn and...
Do you know the best button?
No.
It's the button delivered.
The jack-to-seat.
It's not the jack-to-seat.
It's delivered drink to my mouth now.
You're kidding.
They've all got a little tube going into their mouth, and they have a button, but if
they press and it delivers them a drink.
When you just said delivered drink to my mouth now, that sounded like Anna in a bar.
[laughter]
Yeah, and where can I get one of these little console things?
I don't mean whiskeys in it, but...
I think they can probably fill it with whatever they like.
Yeah.
They probably don't fill it with whisky, though.
So one guy who probably would have liked this was a motor racing driver called Duncan
Hamilton.
Okay, so in 1953, he was in the Le Mans 24-hour race, but in qualifying, he had the same
number as another car and got disqualified for having the same number as another car.
How did that happen?
Well, just an admin problem, I guess.
That's a real pain in the eye.
Anyway, so they went out in the town in Le Mans and got absolutely shit-faced, and then
the organizers during this time thought, "Actually, that is quite harsh.
Let's let them back in."
So his buses went to the bar to try and find him, and he's kind of slumped over a bar
somewhere, and they're like, "Come on, come on, we've got to do the race."
And he's like, "Well, I'm not sure I'm okay for to do this."
And they're like, "No, no, come on, come on, come on."
And so he took part, absolutely shit-faced driving the Le Mans 24-hour.
This is in 1953.
And every pit stop, the crew started giving him coffee to try and sell him up, and then after
about a dozen of these pit stops, he said, "No, stop giving me coffee because it's making
me shake."
And so instead, they started giving him more brandy.
Stop him from shaking, and sure enough, he won the race.
Whoa!
That's incredible.
Guys, we do not condone that, by the way, on this podcast, on the normal roads.
But wow.
Here's the thing.
So that's the wheels, right?
Have you heard about their helmets, and how good they are, because they're unbelievably,
because they have to experience severe impacts without buckling.
So they have to withstand a flame, a huge torture flame, for 45 seconds, without it getting
unbearably hot inside.
So they're testing that way.
Imagine the work experience.
It's like, "What am I doing today?" "Well, just put this helmet on."
"Oh, is it the fun drinking one?"
I'm afraid not today.
I love Bernie Eccleston's ideas to improve Formula One.
He always comes up with, like, I think they're just sound bites, but they're usually pretty
funny.
Like, really?
So one of them was that he said that they should have fake rainstorms halfway through each
race.
He's like, "Why rely on the weather?
Why don't we just, for 20 minutes, put sprinklers on all the tracks, so there's a fake
rainstorm?"
What to make it fair?
It adds a bit of unpredictability to it, because in Formula One, often, I think it's just
people driving around struggling to overtake each other.
He's suggesting, making it unpredictable, by ensuring that the same thing happens in every
race.
Yes, but you never know when it's going to happen.
Oh, cool.
And maybe you would give the teams, like, 10 minutes head start.
It's like, it's going to rain in 10 minutes, and everyone's like, "Oh, no!"
Again.
Did he say anything about maybe there being a section in every race where the floor
suddenly disappears and you need to ride the roof in order to get it?
Now I'm going to show her if he's listening.
Do you know they have to test wet tires, obviously, the wet tires.
Oh, the tires are so cool.
They can clear 60 litres of water away from the tires in one second.
Wow.
That's how fast they're going and how much water they come in contact with.
It's not amazing.
Yeah.
And the full of nitrogen, aren't they?
Rather than normal air.
Are they?
I think so.
Because if you put normal air in, then you're more likely to get water vapor, and the
water vapor, when the tire heats up, can kind of do unpredictable things.
But if you have nitrogen, very inert, it'll be absolutely fine.
So that's something they have in common with crisp packets, which are also full of nitrogen.
Instead of air, because air will make the crisps go off, because the oxygen will react
with a crisp.
Nitrogen isn't in gas.
Oh, wow.
Doesn't affect the rest.
So crisps and formula one tires.
So, Bernie, another tip for a possible challenge in the race, you have to have at
least one tire made of a crisp packet.
And then the driver can just press a button on his wheel, which says deliver crisps to my mouse.
OK, it's time for fact number three.
And that's James.
OK, my fact this week is that the earliest known mention of the balalaika is of someone
being arrested for playing one.
When was this?
OK.
This was in 1688.
Oh, wow, is that old?
Oh, yeah, probably older, but this is the first mention of them.
And this was two peasants who were called Safkaf Firdorov and Ivashko Dimitriyev, who ran
up to a gate and antagonised the guard while singing and playing the balalaika and then
got arrested.
Oh, really?
Wow.
Imagine if those two guys could know that more than 300 years after this event, people
in the future will be talking about it and making fun of them.
The next mention was in 1700 and there were two coachmen who were chased by the servant
of the magistrate and beaten with their own balalaika.
Oh, wow.
Are they very solid or would they smash?
They've got corners, haven't they?
Yeah, they're triangular.
Right.
So a balalaika is a stringed musical instrument, a bit like a guitar from Russia, which has got
triangular bass and the triangular bass is supposed to give it a slightly different timbre
and a slightly different sound to normal instruments.
So why does everyone hate people who are using balalaikers in the early days?
Well, I think it was a protest instrument.
In the olden days in Russia, they didn't like people playing music in general.
The Russian Orthodox Church really basically said you shouldn't be playing any instruments.
And so what they would do is if they caught you playing a balalaika, they'd basically steal
it off you and then crush it and just burn it or whatever.
And then people would just remake them because actually they were really easy to make.
And that's one theory why you have these triangular basses because a triangular guitar is easier
to make than a round one.
And so that's one theory as to why balalaikers are triangular.
The same as with derrily cheese, it's just easier to make the cheese.
Also, hated by the Russian Orthodox Church.
You know that a June 23rd is international balalaika day.
Yeah, I did read that, but then I'd never heard of it being an international citizen.
And I asked two Russians and neither of those have heard of it either.
Well, the sentence that was right after saying that it's international balalaika day,
also said no one cares.
It's just a day that no one cares about.
No one celebrates.
It's an international day of like about 20 things that no one cares about, isn't it?
It's true, yeah.
Just on the fact that there were rebellion instruments,
I, through this fact, learned about this group of people that I'd never heard of
before, but who sound really interesting, called skomaroks.
And they were the people who were most associated with playing the balalaika, I think, traditionally
in Russia.
And so this is one of the reasons the government didn't like the instrument, because skomaroks
were these gestures, actors, singers, and their whole modus operandi was really going around
and satirizing the church and state.
And they sound great.
And they seem to go on for a couple of hundred years, just going from town to town performing
and taking the piss out of the government and the church.
And often exposing themselves at festivals was the reason they were not liked.
Because they were just, I think the word might come from the same route as skaramush,
which was the character in Commedia del Arte.
And they were basically just going from that queen song as well.
Yeah.
No, yeah, yeah.
Is he literally that?
That's where they got the word from, yeah.
And these were basically just peasants would have parties like this, and they did it all
over Europe, not just in Russia, not just in Italy, but everywhere.
It's sort of odd that they all had the same instrument, because if I was a skomarok, I'd
turn up with something different, like a piano or a violin, but then I'd reveal, actually,
I'm still there to make fun of you.
I think it's an odd piano, of course, yet to be invented.
Well, what's the thing before, wasn't it hard for a predecessor to the piano forte?
It was called the forte piano.
Oh, yeah.
Was it?
Yeah.
The piano?
You had to play it upside down in a tunnel while you were going a 150 miles an hour, yeah.
So piano is short for piano forte, which means quiet loud, and what they were looking for
was a percussion instrument which could make quiet noises and loud noises at the same time
like a guitar could, because all the other ones like harpsichord and an organ, you can really
only kind of play loud front organ and quiet for a harpsichord.
Yeah.
Very boring.
Very boring music.
I was just thinking just like the formula one thing, if we think of that technology, wouldn't
it be cool if there was just an extra key on the piano for the pianist could play, and
it delivers a bit of drink to them as they're playing on the shutters?
I mean, this is an old joke, but I genuinely heard you just say, wouldn't it be cool if there
was an extra key on a piano that a pianist could play?
I do hear that.
I heard that.
If you're playing at both ends of the piano, really low notes and really high notes, but
you need to play at middle notes.
And Mozart sometimes play with his knees.
Did he?
I could have sworn there was one very early kind of piano which had pedals that were knee operated.
Oh, yeah.
And I think Mozart played one of them.
Yeah, okay.
And just on Balalaikas, there seems to be a rumour in a lot of Russian media that Balalaikas
have been banned in the US, which is a totally unfounded rumour, and not sure where it came
from, but there's so a lot of Russian people complained that the US has completely banned
Balalaikas, which is not the case.
I think it's not an extremely common fallacy, but I think it comes up on news articles every
now and then.
Every international Balalaikaday, I certainly protest about the fact that I did read a debunk
of it which pointed out, no, they're not banned.
They've never been banned.
It's just that there's no market for Balalaikas in the USA.
Do you know instruments are banned on television in Iran, which I didn't know at all.
So you can't show musical instruments on state TV.
And there have been a couple of occasions, I think, where TV channels have accidentally
contravened this rule.
So there was one where someone started singing on Iranian TV, and then they began to play
the piano.
But as soon as they started playing the piano, they had to cut off the program.
He was playing it with his penis.
If you have an orchestra show, then only the singer can be in front of a curtain, and then
the rest of the orchestra and all the players are behind the curtain.
It's really interesting because it's thought to be, well, some sheer clerics think that it's
an act that's forbidden by Islamic law to show musical instruments in public.
Right.
Another weird instrument that was invented by a Russian is the Theraman.
So the way you play it is it has antennae which sends the vibrations of your hands, so you
don't touch the instrument while playing it.
You can be at a sort of a decent distance away, can't you?
And your right hand controls the pitch, so your right hand is controlling the notes that
you play, and your left hand controls the volume.
And it's rigged up to know this, this instrument.
And it sounds really lovely, it sounds kind of like a very high pitch violin, almost like
a human voice.
Like a lot of instruments, it sounds lovely if you know how to play it.
Yes.
Yeah.
I imagine if I just started waving at one, it would be the worst thing you'd ever heard
of me.
I'd be bound immediately.
Have you built barely play some?
Yes.
Have you seen the Badgerman?
It's a Theraman crossed with a stuffed Badger.
Okay.
Sure.
It's not in mass production.
I think they may only be one of these things.
Why did you see it?
He invented a load of really cool stuff.
He invented a technique called interlace, which improves the quality of a TV signal, which
is still used in TVs today.
Wow.
It stops it from flickering.
He also invented a thing called the thing.
And it was a seal, an American seal, not an animal seal, but a seal of the United States.
And there was an eavesdropping device inside it.
And it hung for seven years in plain view on the US ambassador's Moscow office.
And they managed to listen into everything that was said for seven years until he was
accidentally discovered by some British guy, I think.
But this technology that he used in it was amazing.
It's called RFID Radio Frequency Identification.
And it's the kind of stuff you use in oyster cards or contactless or say you have a key card
to get into a hotel room.
It's that technology which he invented.
Oh wow.
He was originally used for spying.
He eventually vanished, didn't he?
I think he got taken away by the Soviets one night in 1938.
Really?
It's over time.
Do you know how he brought one of the instruments along James?
OK, it is time for our final fact of the show and that is Chaczynski.
My fact this week is that lemurs and loruses like their liquor are strong as possible.
And this is from a new study that's just been done.
And it was a study that was done on the slow lorus and the ii lemur.
And they found that if you give them a range of alcoholic drinks that differ in their alcohol
content, they always go for the strongest one.
And in fact, they'll have twice as much of the strong alcohol as the rest.
Do you feel an affinity to these animals, Anna?
I always did.
You know, the slow loruses are so adorable and people often say the same about me.
So I couldn't guess they.
It's about 5% is the highest.
It's like getting stellar instead of carwing.
Precisely.
Yeah.
There's just the more alcohol the better.
And we don't know why because you would have thought you would have put you in a disadvantage
because once you get drunk, then your motor responses are damaged and your concentration
isn't as good and you would have thought you're easy prey.
But on the other hand, then you get calories from alcohol.
So it seems like they've developed evolved a tolerance for alcohol over the years.
Yeah, they don't get that drunk, do they?
They certainly didn't in this experiment, no.
It's interesting how many animals like alcohol, which I haven't even insects, so I was reading
a report about entomologists often use beer as bait for moths and butterflies when they
want to catch them for something.
Yeah, so flies love alcohol as well.
Yes.
So it's just on insect.
Fruit flies go nuts for it and they actively get regularly drinking till they're drunk and
they'll be wobbling around and they won't be able to fly properly.
I did read an article about them that said that males who have not mated are more likely
to get drunk than the males who have mated in flies.
Yes.
Certainly true in my experience.
If males who have been rejected, they drown their sorrows.
Yeah, all right.
That's not going on about it.
And also, fruit flies that get drunk, but they massively lower their standards.
So when they're mating, they'll suddenly mate with anything.
So as soon as the fruit fly gets a bit pissed, it starts trying to mate with fruit flies
of its own sex.
Let's move on from this point on their face.
So the slow loris is just about the only venomous mammal.
As in, it bites you and it transfers venom to you, as opposed to poisonous where if you eat
it, you get poisoned.
Yeah.
So it's really odd though, because it keeps its venom in an elbow patch.
And to poison you, it has to lick the inside of its elbow where it's got these glands and
it's accretes the poison from there and then it's got the venom in its mouth and then it's
swills at round in its mouth with its own saliva and that activates the venom, making it
really dangerous.
It's only, they've only killed one person documented in medical literature.
And that was somebody who went into anaphylaxis, wasn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
And there are all these videos of them online being tickled and it's supposedly really adorable.
What they're actually doing is lifting up their arms to try and get to their venom glands.
So what I was going to say, if you're going to put a venom gland anywhere, don't put
it on your elbow, which is famously the bit that's hardest to lick in the whole body.
I know.
It's a really good point.
It's a funny joke from God.
The slow loris is expense.
Do you know the gentle lemus, one of the most aggressive lemus there is?
No.
Really?
She's weird.
It's just based on a weird etymological thing where it was, it looked a little bit like a
mama set whose name was haparley and haparley means gentle and so it was called the gentle
lemus.
It's actually a complete bastard.
Wow.
In captivity they're really vicious.
That's really funny.
What do they do?
Like what levels of viciousness?
You can't.
You don't get near your car.
They'll care.
Just be rude online.
It's not like that.
Yeah.
Trolling.
Okay.
That's it.
That's all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you would like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the
course of this podcast, we can all be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on our Shriveland, Andy, Andrew Hunter M, James, @XShaped and Anna.
You can email podcast@ky.com.
Yep.
Or you can go to our group account, which is @kypodcast or go to no such thing as a fish.com
where we have all of our previous episodes.
We'll be back again next week with another episode.
We'll see you then.
Goodbye.
[Music]
(upbeat music)